manual rotation of CA certificates (#15444 and #19165) (#19351)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/tasks/tls/manual-rotation-of-ca-certificates.md

---

> title: Manual rotation of CA certificates

Reviewer: nit:
```suggestion
title: Manual Rotation of CA Certificates
```
also consider editing the title of https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tls/certificate-rotation/ to, eg, “Configure Certificate Rotation for the Kubelet”

content_template: templates/task

> reviewers:

Reviewer: It's OK to omit this line.

Author: done

> - 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
min-kubernetes-server-version: v1.13
```
(kubeadm was GA in v1.13)

---

{{% capture overview %}}

> This page shows how to manually rotate certificate authority (CA) certificates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page shows how to manually rotate the certificate authority (CA) certificates that your cluster uses.
For example, you might do this if your cluster's CA certificates are due to expire.
```
?

Author: done

{{% /capture %}}

{{% capture prerequisites %}}

> 

Reviewer: Do these steps assume that you have opted for a single root CA deployment as per https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/best-practices/certificates/#single-root-ca? If so, I would mention that.

Author: @sftim no, it doesn't assume that.

Reviewer: :ok_hand:

{{< include "task-tutorial-prereqs.md" >}} {{< version-check >}}

For more information about authentication in Kubernetes, see "[Authenticating](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authentication)".

> For more information about best practices for CA certificates, see "[Single root CA](docs/setup/best-practices/certificates/#single-root-ca)".

Reviewer: These lines could move to a new What's next section at the foot of the page. Do you think they work better there or here?
If they stay, I'd write:
```suggestion
For more information about authentication in Kubernetes, see [Authenticating](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authentication/).
For more information about recommended practice for CA certificates, see [Configure certificates manually](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/best-practices/certificates/#configure-certificates-manually).
```

Author: I guess they are good here, for they give some precontext of the story.

Author: @sftim added almost all your suggestions with the latest commit.

Reviewer: I'd write:
```suggestion
For more information about authentication in Kubernetes, see [Authenticating](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authentication/).
For more information about recommended practice for CA certificates, see [Configure certificates manually](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/best-practices/certificates/#configure-certificates-manually).
```

{{% /capture %}}

{{% capture steps %}}

There are two ways to rotate or replace CA certificates.

> ## Replace the cluster (recommended)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Replace the cluster (recommended) {#replace-the-cluster}
```

This makes inbound links stable if the “(recommended)” part changes.

This is the safest approach to rotate or replace the CA certificates.

1. Create a new cluster with new CA certificates.

2. Migrate the workloads to the new cluster.

3. Remove or destroy the old cluster.

## Rotate the CA certificates manually

{{< caution >}}

> Kubeadm does not directly support rotating or replacement of CA certificates. Make sure to back up your certificate directory along with confs and any other necessary files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `kubeadm` tool does not directly support rotating or replacement of CA certificates. Make sure to back up your certificate directory along with configuration files and any other necessary data.
```

Author: This line is removed and added on kubeadm-certs page as @neolit123 suggested.

Manually rotating the CA works by timing when a Kubernetes cluster knows about new certificates. Do not restart any pods or update any component in the cluster while manually rotating the CA.

This approach requires a considerable downtime of your cluster.

{{< /caution >}}

1. Back up your `/etc/kubernetes` directory, referred to as the *Kubernetes conf directory* and `/etc/kubernetes/pki`, referred to as the *Kubernetes certificates directory*.

1. Distribute new CA certificates to all your control plane nodes in the kubernetes certificates directory.

    Copy the CA certificate file or CA bundle (whichever you're using) on all nodes needed by the kubelet and the control plane component's `--client-ca-file` flag in the manifest files. 

    {{< note >}}

>     Control plane components run as static pod manifests, managed by the kubelet. Components are not disrupted by in-place updates of CA certificates until someone kills or restarts an already running pod.

Reviewer: nit:
```suggestion
    If you used `kubeadm` to deploy your cluster, the control plane components run as {{< glossary_tooltip text="static Pods" term_id="static-pod" >}}, managed by the {{< glossary_tooltip text="kubelet" term_id="kubelet" >}}. Components are not disrupted by in-place updates of CA certificates until someone kills or restarts an already running Pod.
```

Author: done

    {{< /note >}}

1. Get new certificates and private keys signed from the new CA for `apiserver.crt`, `apiserver-kubelet-client.crt`, and `front-proxy-client.crt` and replace them in the Kubernetes certificates directory.

    To generate certificates and private keys for your cluster using openssl, see "[openssl](/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/certificates/#openssl)". 
    
    You can also use [cfssl](/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/certificates/#cfssl).

> 1. Update the config map `cluster-info` in the kube-public namespace.

Reviewer: nit:
```suggestion
1. Update the ConfigMap `cluster-info` in the `kube-public` namespace.
```

    ```shell

>     base64_encoded_ca=$(/usr/bin/base64 /etc/kubernetes/pki/ca.crt)

Reviewer: nit (code style):
```suggestion
    base64_encoded_ca="$(base64 /etc/kubernetes/pki/ca.crt)"
```
What do you think?

Author: I have a habit of using absolute path, it will anyways work on shell without /usr/bin, so I removed it and committed the changes.

    kubectl get cm/cluster-info --namespace kube-public -o yaml | \
    /bin/sed "s/\(certificate-authority-data:\).*/\1 ${base64_encoded_ca}" | \
    kubectl apply -f -
    ```

> 1. Update all service account tokens with the new CA certificates.

Reviewer: nit:
```suggestion
1. Update all service account tokens with the new CA certificates:
```

    ```shell

>     base64_encoded_ca=$(/usr/bin/base64 /etc/kubernetes/pki/ca.crt)

Reviewer: nit (code style):
```suggestion
    base64_encoded_ca="$(base64 /etc/kubernetes/pki/ca.crt)"
```

    for namespace in $(kubectl get ns --no-headers); do

>         for token in $(kubectl get secrets --namespace $namespace --field-selector type=kubernetes.io/service-account-token -o name); do

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        for token in $(kubectl get secrets --namespace "$namespace" --field-selector type=kubernetes.io/service-account-token -o name); do
```

            kubectl get $token --namespace $namespace -o yaml | \
            /bin/sed "s/\(ca.crt:\).*/\1 ${base64_encoded_ca}" | \
            kubectl apply -f -
        done
    done

    ```

> 1. Update certificates for user accounts.

Reviewer: nit
```suggestion
1. Update certificates for user accounts:
```

    For information about creating certificates for individual user accounts, see "[Configure certificate for user accounts](/docs/setup/best-practices/certificates/#configure-certificates-for-user-accounts)".

    Update `client-certificate-data` and `client-key-data` respectively with the contents of certificates and private keys generated in their respective conf files, along with the kubelet client file in`/var/lib/kubelet/kubelet-client-current.pem`.

> 1. Update `kubelet.conf`, the `kubelet` certificate, and the private key on all worker nodes as well.

Reviewer: nit:
```suggestion
1. Update `kubelet.conf`, the kubelet certificate, and the private key on all worker nodes as well.
```

> 1. Update the `certificate-authority-data` section in all `admin.conf`, `controller-manager.conf`,  `scheduler.conf`, and `kubelet.conf` files with base64 encoded CA certificate data.

Reviewer: nit:
```suggestion
1. Update the `certificate-authority-data` section in all `admin.conf`, `controller-manager.conf`,  `scheduler.conf`, and `kubelet.conf` files with Base64-encoded CA certificate data.
```

    Example:
    ```shell

>     base64_encoded_ca=$(/usr/bin/base64 /etc/kubernetes/pki/ca.crt)

Reviewer: nit (code style):
```suggestion
    base64_encoded_ca="$(base64 /etc/kubernetes/pki/ca.crt)"
```

    /bin/sed -i "s/\(certificate-authority-data:\).*/\1 ${base64_encoded_ca}" /path/to/conf/files
    ```

> 1. Follow these steps on all control plane and worker nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Follow these steps on all control plane and worker nodes:
```

    a. Stop the kubelet service on all control plane and worker nodes.

>     a. Kill the static pod's containers manually on control plane nodes.

Reviewer: nit:
```suggestion
    a. Kill the static Pods' containers manually on control plane nodes:
```

>         ```shell

Reviewer: I'd add a comment to tell the reader that this command assumes they are using Docker as the container runtime on their control plane.

Author: done

        /bin/docker ps -q --name=k8s_* | xargs --no-run-if-empty docker rm -f -
        ``` 

    a. Start the kubelet service.

    a. Make sure the control plane comes up and logs no TLS errors.

    a. Make sure container networking functions.

    a. Make sure `coredns` and `kube-proxy` are updated with the new CA and function correctly after CA rotation.

    a. Kill or restart all other pods, one by one for all available namespaces, leveraging the benefit of rolling restarts to refresh service account credentials.

>         ```shell

Reviewer: I'd add a comment `# Run this for each namespace` to reinforce the point.

min-kubernetes-server-version: v1.13
content_template: templates/task
---

{{% capture overview %}}

This page shows how to manually rotate the certificate authority (CA) certificates.

{{% /capture %}}

{{% capture prerequisites %}}

{{< include "task-tutorial-prereqs.md" >}} {{< version-check >}}

For more information about authentication in Kubernetes, see [Authenticating](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authentication).
For more information about best practices for CA certificates, see [Single root CA](docs/setup/best-practices/certificates/#single-root-ca).

{{% /capture %}}

{{% capture steps %}}
## Rotate the CA certificates manually

{{< caution >}}

Make sure to back up your certificate directory along with configuration files and any other necessary files.

This approach assumes operation of the Kubernetes control plane in a HA configuration with multiple API servers. Graceful termination of the API server is also assumed so clients can cleanly disconnect from one API server and reconnect to another. 

Configurations with a single API server will experience unavailability while the API server is being restarted.

{{< /caution >}}
    

> 1. Distribute new CA private keys (`ca.key` and `front-proxy-ca.key`) to all your control plane nodes in the Kubernetes certificates directory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Distribute the new CA certificates and private keys (ex: `ca.crt`, `ca.key`, `front-proxy-ca.crt`, and `front-proxy-ca.key`) to all your control plane nodes in the Kubernetes certificates directory.
```

1. Update *Kubernetes controller manager's* `--root-ca-file` to include both old and new CA and restart controller manager.

    Any service account created after this point will get secrets that include both old and new CAs.

    {{< note >}}

    Remove the flag `--client-ca-file` from the *Kubernetes controller manager* configuration. You can also replace the existing client CA file or change this configuration item to reference a new, updated CA. [Issue 1350](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubeadm/issues/1350) tracks an issue with *Kubernetes controller manager* being unable to accept a CA bundle.

    {{< /note >}}

> 1. Update all service account tokens to include both old + new CA certificates.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Update all service account tokens to include both old and new CA certificates.
```

>     If any pods started before new CA is picked by API servers, they will get this update and trust both old + new CAs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    If any pods are started before new CA is used by API servers, they will get this update and trust both old and new CAs.
```

    ```shell
    base64_encoded_ca="$(base64 <path to file containing both old + new CAs>)"

    for namespace in $(kubectl get ns --no-headers | awk '{print $1}'); do
        for token in $(kubectl get secrets --namespace "$namespace" --field-selector type=kubernetes.io/service-account-token -o name); do
            kubectl get $token --namespace "$namespace" -o yaml | \

>             /bin/sed "s/\(ca.crt:\).*/\1 ${base64_encoded_ca}" | \

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
              /bin/sed "s/\(ca.crt:\).*/\1 ${base64_encoded_ca}" | \
```

>             kubectl apply -f -

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
              kubectl apply -f -
```

        done
    done
    ```

1. Restart all pods using in-cluster configs (ex: kube-proxy, coredns, etc) so they can use the updated certificate authority data from *ServiceAccount* secrets.

    *   Make sure coredns, kube-proxy and other pods using in-cluster configs are working as expected.

> 1. Append new CA to the file against `--client-ca-file` flag in the `kube-apiserver` and `kube-scheduler` configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Append the new CA to the file against `--client-ca-file` flag in the `kube-apiserver` and `kube-scheduler` configuration.
```

>     {{< note >}}

Reviewer 2: nit: It is not obvious that this note relates to the following point. If I used kops to deploy my cluster, how would I know that `admin.conf` is related to kubeadm?

Reviewer 3: yes, i think we can remove this note.
depending on their setup, the users should know how to restart the control-plane components.

    If you used `kubeadm` to deploy your cluster, the control plane components run as {{< glossary_tooltip text="static Pods" term_id="static-pod" >}}, managed by the {{< glossary_tooltip text="kubelet" term_id="kubelet" >}}.

    {{< /note >}}

> 1. Update certificates for user accounts by replacing the content of `client-certificate-data` and `client-key-data` respectively and the `certificate-authority-data` section in all `admin.conf`, `controller-manager.conf`, `scheduler.conf` files with Base64-encoded new certificate data:

Reviewer 2: I'd suggest splitting this step in to two parts. A single step conflates users' kubeconfigs with kubeadm configuration

Additionally, users will need to update the `certificate-authority-data` or `certificate-authority` to include both CAs in their kubeconfigs

    For information about creating certificates for individual user accounts, see [Configure certificates for user accounts](/docs/setup/best-practices/certificates/#configure-certificates-for-user-accounts).

> 1. Restart API servers with the certificates (`apiserver.crt`, `apiserver-kubelet-client.crt`, and `front-proxy-client.crt`) signed by new CA. You can use the existing private keys or new private keys. If you changed the private keys then update these in the Kubernetes certificates directory as well.

Reviewer 2: This step comes too soon, kubelets and aggregate API servers aren't configured to trust the new CA yet.

Can you clarify that this should be performed in a rolling fashion?

Author: Yes, thats better. Will make that change.

Reviewer 2: This is still too soon, you need to ensure the kubelets and aggregate APIs trust the new CAs before using a new API server certificate

>     Since the pod trusts both old + new CAs, there will be a momentarily disconnection after which the pod's kube client will reconnect to the new API server that uses the certificate signed by the new CA.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Since the pod trusts both old and new CAs, there will be a momentarily disconnection after which the pod's kube client will reconnect to the new API server that uses the certificate signed by the new CA.
```

    *    Restart Scheduler to use the new CAs.

    *    Make sure control plane components logs no TLS errors.

    {{< note >}}

    To generate certificates and private keys for your cluster using the `openssl` command line tool, see [Certificates (`openssl`)](/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/certificates/#openssl).    
    You can also use [`cfssl`](/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/certificates/#cfssl).

    {{< /note >}}

1. If your cluster is using bootstrap tokens to join nodes, update the ConfigMap `cluster-info` in the `kube-public` namespace with new CA.

    ```shell
    base64_encoded_ca="$(base64 /etc/kubernetes/pki/ca.crt)"

    kubectl get cm/cluster-info --namespace kube-public -o yaml | \
        /bin/sed "s/\(certificate-authority-data:\).*/\1 ${base64_encoded_ca}" | \
        kubectl apply -f -
    ```

> 1. Update the file against `clientCAFile` in kubelet configuration and `certificate-authority-data` in kubelet.conf to use the new CA on all nodes.

Reviewer 2: This could be moved into a sub-step of the following step

Author: moved to the suggested location.

    If your kubelet is not using client certificate rotation update `client-certificate-data` and `client-key-data` in kubelet.conf on all nodes along with the kubelet client certificate file usually found in `/var/lib/kubelet/pki`.

1. Follow these steps on all nodes in a rolling fashion.

>     1. Restart kubelet to start using the new CA

Reviewer 2: This could be more detailed. What constitutes "using the new CA"?

Author: Any suggestions with better words to include "At this point the kubelet will start using new CA to establish trusted communication with API server".

Reviewer 2: There are 3 configurable kubelet certificate settings, and we should be clear about each of them:

* kubelet authentication configuration (the `clientCAFile` in the config file). The clientCA file needs to be updated before the controller manager starts signing new certs on the CSR API.
* Kubelet client cert (optional). This must be done only after the KCM starts using the new CA private key
* Kubelet server cert. This must be done only after the API server has updated `--kubelet-client-certificate` with a certificate signed by the new CA and `--kubelet-certificate-authority` includes both the old and new CAs

Author: @micahhausler  This is a bit confusing here, Both kubelet and API server would need to be restarted more than twice in the process. 
1. I agree the kubelet needs to be updated first with `clientCAFile` containing both old and new CA but to make that effective kubelet must be restarted.
2. The API server will be restarted once after the KCM, Aggregated APIs and kubelet (ClientCAFile + Kubelet Client certificate)are updated.
3. Kubelet's Server certificate are updated and the kubelet is restarted to make it effective.
4. Then `--kubelet-client-certificate` needs to be updated in APIserver and it needs restart again.
5. All components must remove Old CA and restart again.

Am I missing an important point here, it is possible for me to confuse with a lot of discussion happened here, please advise.

>     1. Restart any other *[aggregated api servers](/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/apiserver-aggregation/)* or *webhook handlers* to trust the new CA certificates.

Reviewer 2: I think this step and the following step could be pulled out into top level steps. You wouldn't restart all pods for ever _N_ nodes in your cluster

Author: agreed and moved.

    1. Annotate any daemonsets and deployments to trigger new pod creation in a safer rolling fashion.

        Example:

        ```shell
        for namespace in $(kubectl get namespace -o jsonpath='{.items[*].metadata.name}'); do
            for name in $(kubectl get deployments -n $namespace -o jsonpath='{.items[*].metadata.name}'); do
                kubectl patch deployment -n ${namespace} ${name} -p '{"spec":{"template":{"metadata":{"annotations":{"ca-rotation": "1"}}}}}';
            done
            for name in $(kubectl get daemonset -n $namespace -o jsonpath='{.items[*].metadata.name}'); do
                kubectl patch daemonset -n ${namespace} ${name} -p '{"spec":{"template":{"metadata":{"annotations":{"ca-rotation": "1"}}}}}';
            done
        done
        ```

> 1. Once the cluster functionality is successfully verified:

Reviewer 2: This guide doesn't say how cluster functionality is verified. Can you either include a step above saying how someone could verify functionality, or just make this a step about removing the old CA?

Author: I guess manually verifying if the control plane and the kubelet logs does not reports tls errors should be fine to understand if the change was accepted. If you have any specific suggestion, i would welcome it.

Author: @micahhausler added one step for verification via logs. request you to review again and let me know if I understood and applied all your suggestions correctly.

Reviewer 2: I think this is good enough for now. We can add more comprehensive verification instructions in a later PR

---
title: Manual Rotation of CA certificates
content_template: templates/task
reviewers:
- 
---

{{% capture overview %}}

This page shows how to rotate CA certificates manually.

{{% /capture %}}

{{% capture prerequisites %}}

{{< include "task-tutorial-prereqs.md" >}} {{< version-check >}}

Read about the authentication in kubernetes [here](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authentication)

{{% /capture %}}

{{% capture steps %}}

There are two possible ways of rotating or replacing the CA certificates.

## Replace The Cluster (Recommended)

This is by far the safest approach to rotate or replace the CA certificates.

1. Create a new cluster with new CA certificates.

2. Migrate the workloads to the new cluster.

3. Remove or destroy the old cluster.

## Rotate the CA certificates Manually

{{< caution >}}

> The rotation or replacement of CA Certificates is not supported directly by the ```kubeadm``` at this time and hence this documentation has to be followed with caution. Please make sure to take necessary backups of your certificate directory along with confs and any other necessary files.

Reviewer 3: @abhiTamrakar 

CA rotation is arguably out of scope for core-kubeadm.
maybe we can add it as part of the "kubeadm operator". a search query in k/kubeadm will let you find the tracking issue for that.

i'd prefer if we remove the kubeadm mention here. maybe link from the kubeadm docs to this page if it's approved.

Author: @neolit123 I am partly agreed here. I was thinking about people like me who struggled to find CA rotation was not supported by kubeadm or any kubernetes sub-component. We need some place where we mention what we do not support at present and what all is in our pipeline.

I would request to have it there for time being and once kubeadm operator #1698 (I guess) becomes ready, this documentation would be updated.

Reviewer 3: you can add a new section here called "CA rotation":
https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/kubeadm/kubeadm-certs/

that explains with once sentence that kubeadm does not support CA rotation out of the box and link to this new page.

once the "operator" supports it, we can add this detail as well in the kubeadm certs management page.

Author: done, moved the line and added to the page you have mentioned.

Author: @neolit123 should we include `kubeadm init phase` commands as an alternative in the document. Using kubeadm, if we upload certs or re-create `kubeadm-certs` secret then `kubeadm init phase kubeconfig` and `kubeadm init phase kubelet-start` would actually help by passing many manual patches in conf files and kubelet certs along with human errors.

Reviewer 3: for the new page, it should remain kubeadm agnostic without any kubeadm commands.
`kubeadm-certs` is a kubeadm implementation detail, so possibly you can mention kubeadm specifics in the "CA rotation" section of:
https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/kubeadm/kubeadm-certs/

but also i would prefer if we keep the kubeadm documentation with minimal examples and not expand too much in the lines of a exact step-by-step tutorial, because kubeadm HA is still Beta and has moving parts.

Author: okay.

    Also update the respective section of ```client-certificate-data``` and ```client-key-data``` with the contents of certificates and private keys hence generated in their respective conf files, along with ```(kubelet client) /var/lib/kubelet/kubelet-config-current.pem``` file.

1. Update ```kubelet.conf```, ```kubelet``` certificate and private key on all worker nodes as well.

1. Update **certificate-autority-data** section in all ```admin.conf, controller-manager.conf,  scheduler.conf and kubelet.conf``` files with base64 encoded CA certificate data.

    Example:
    ```shell
    base64_encoded_ca=$(/usr/bin/base64 /etc/kubernetes/pki/ca.crt)

    /bin/sed -i "s/\(certificate-authority-data:\).*/\1 ${base64_encoded_ca}" /path/to/conf/files
    ```

1. Execute below one by one on all control plane and worker nodes.

    * Stop ```Kubelet``` service one by one on all control plane and worker nodes.

    * Kill the static pod's containers manually on control plane nodes.
        ```shell
        /bin/docker ps -q --name=k8s_* | xargs --no-run-if-empty docker rm -f -
        ``` 

    * Start ```kubelet``` service

>     * Make sure control plane comes up and logs has no TLS errors.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    a. Make sure the control plane comes up and logs no TLS errors.
```

>     * Make sure container networking is functional.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    a. Make sure container networking functions.
```

>     * Make sure ```coredns``` and ```kube-proxy``` are also updated with new CA if they were handled manually and are functional post CA rotation.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    a. Make sure `coredns` and `kube-proxy` are updated with the new CA and function correctly after CA rotation.
```

>     * Kill or restart all other pods, one by one for all available namespaces, leveraging the benefit of rolling restarts to refresh service account credentials.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    a. Kill or restart all other pods, one by one for all available namespaces, leveraging the benefit of rolling restarts to refresh service account credentials.
```

        ```shell
        kubectl delete pods --namespace <namespace>
        ```

> 1. [Distribute Self Signed CA certificates](/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/certificates/#distributing-self-signed-ca-certificate)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. Distribute [Self Signed CA certificates](/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/certificates/#distributing-self-signed-ca-certificate).
```

---
title: Manual Rotation of CA Certificates
min-kubernetes-server-version: v1.13
content_template: templates/task
---

{{% capture overview %}}

This page shows how to manually rotate the certificate authority (CA) certificates.

{{% /capture %}}

{{% capture prerequisites %}}

{{< include "task-tutorial-prereqs.md" >}} {{< version-check >}}

For more information about authentication in Kubernetes, see "[Authenticating](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authentication)".

> For more information about best practices for CA certificates, see "[Single root CA](docs/setup/best-practices/certificates/#single-root-ca)".

Reviewer: The quoted links look odd and don't match the style guide
```suggestion
For more information about authentication in Kubernetes, see [Authenticating](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authentication).
For more information about best practices for CA certificates, see [Single root CA](docs/setup/best-practices/certificates/#single-root-ca).
```

Author: done

{{% /capture %}}

{{% capture steps %}}

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Choose an approach
```

I'm suggesting this to make the [table of contents](https://deploy-preview-19351--kubernetes-io-master-staging.netlify.com/docs/tasks/tls/manual-rotation-of-ca-certificates/#docsContent) make sense to readers.

There are two ways to rotate or replace CA certificates.

> ### Replace the cluster (recommended) {#replace-the-cluster}

Reviewer: I recommend making this a 2nd level heading, so that it's part of the page table of contents.

Author: done

This is the safest approach to rotate or replace the CA certificates.

1. Create a new cluster with new CA certificates.

2. Migrate the workloads to the new cluster.

3. Remove or destroy the old cluster.

> ### Rotate the CA certificates manually

Reviewer: I recommend making this a 2nd level heading, so that it's part of the page table of contents.

Author: It would be good if there is way to have both approaches as nested labels instead of having them on the same level as "Choose an approach".

{{< caution >}}
Make sure to back up your certificate directory along with configuration files (.conf) and any other necessary files.

Manually rotating the CA works by timing when a Kubernetes cluster knows about new certificates. Do not restart any pods or update any component in the cluster while manually rotating the CA.

This approach requires a considerable downtime of your cluster.

{{< /caution >}}

1. Back up your `/etc/kubernetes` directory, referred to as the *Kubernetes conf directory* and `/etc/kubernetes/pki`, referred to as the *Kubernetes certificates directory*.

> 1. Distribute new CA certificates to all your control plane nodes in the kubernetes certificates directory.

Reviewer 3: i think we should explain that there is a ca.crt and ca.key that are used for CP nodes.

Author: made some changes to include those file names, please let me know if you meant something different.

>     Copy the CA certificate file or CA bundle (whichever you're using) on all nodes needed by the kubelet and the control plane component's `--client-ca-file` flag in the manifest files. 

Reviewer 3: yet ca.crt cannot be a bundle yet due to the KCM limitation.

Author: Yes, we should. I used it with API server and Kubelet in my setup for testing. They were fine but KCM has some trouble indeed.

    {{< note >}}

>     Control plane components run as {{< glossary_tooltip text="static Pods" term_id="static-pod" >}} manifests, managed by the {{< glossary_tooltip text="kubelet" term_id="kubelet" >}}. Components are not disrupted by in-place updates of CA certificates until someone kills or restarts an already running pod.

Reviewer: Sorry, I missed a bit:
```suggestion
    Control plane components run as {{< glossary_tooltip text="static Pods" term_id="static-pod" >}}, managed by the {{< glossary_tooltip text="kubelet" term_id="kubelet" >}}. Components are not disrupted by in-place updates of CA certificates until someone kills or restarts an already running pod.
```

>     Control plane components run as {{< glossary_tooltip text="static Pods" term_id="static-pod" >}}, managed by the {{< glossary_tooltip text="kubelet" term_id="kubelet" >}}. Components are not disrupted by in-place updates of CA certificates until someone kills or restarts an already running pod.

Reviewer 3: if this document is kubeadm agnostic then one might decide to not run the control-plane as static pods.
possibly use the language "restarting components" instead of "restarting pods".

Reviewer: For example:
```suggestion
    If you used `kubeadm` to deploy your cluster, the control plane components run as {{< glossary_tooltip text="static Pods" term_id="static-pod" >}}, managed by the {{< glossary_tooltip text="kubelet" term_id="kubelet" >}}. Components are not disrupted by in-place updates of CA certificates until someone kills or restarts an already running Pod.
```

    {{< /note >}}

1. Get new certificates and private keys signed from the new CA for `apiserver.crt`, `apiserver-kubelet-client.crt`, and `front-proxy-client.crt` and replace them in the Kubernetes certificates directory.

>     To generate certificates and private keys for your cluster using openssl, see "[openssl](/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/certificates/#openssl)". 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    To generate certificates and private keys for your cluster using the `openssl` command line tool, see [Certificates (`openssl`)](/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/certificates/#openssl).
```

>     You can also use [cfssl](/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/certificates/#cfssl).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You can also use [`cfssl`](/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/certificates/#cfssl).
```

> 1. Update the ConfigMap `cluster-info` in the `kube-public` namespace.

Reviewer 3: i'd clarify this as:
> If your cluster is using bootstrap tokens to join nodes, update the ConfigMap....

cluster-info is an implementation details of boostrap tokens:
https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/bootstrap-tokens/#configmap-signing
one might be joining nodes with client certificates instead.

Author: agreed, will make that correction.

    ```shell
    base64_encoded_ca="$(base64 /etc/kubernetes/pki/ca.crt)"

    kubectl get cm/cluster-info --namespace kube-public -o yaml | \

>         /bin/sed "s/\(certificate-authority-data:\).*/\1 ${base64_encoded_ca}" | \

Reviewer 5: Should it be `/bin/sed -e`?[1]

Author: not needed, `-e` is the default behavior while running sed in bash env.

>     kubectl apply -f -

Reviewer: nit: consider indenting these two lines to emphasize the continuation

    ```

1. Update all service account tokens with the new CA certificates.
    ```shell
    base64_encoded_ca="$(base64 /etc/kubernetes/pki/ca.crt)"

>     for namespace in $(kubectl get ns --no-headers | awk '{print $1}'); do

Reviewer 5: is this token signed by the older ca? If yes, just change the ca.crt will not be enough.
Also, if you delete the tokens it'll be recreated(with the ca used by the control-plane at the time)

Author: not until someone restart the control plane components in between which is not recommended.

Reviewer 5: but just replace the ca will work?

Reviewer 2: This is ok as written, as the guide is for rotating the CA, not the ServiceAccount signing keypair.

Reviewer 2: Alternatively:
```suggestion
    for namespace in $(kubectl get namespace -o jsonpath='{.items[*].metadata.name}'); do
```

        for token in $(kubectl get secrets --namespace "$namespace" --field-selector type=kubernetes.io/service-account-token -o name); do
            kubectl get $token --namespace "$namespace" -o yaml | \

>             /bin/sed "s/\(ca.crt:\).*/\1 ${base64_encoded_ca}" | \

Reviewer 5: [1]

            kubectl apply -f -
        done
    done

    ```

1. Update certificates for user accounts.

>     For information about creating certificates for individual user accounts, see "[Configure certificate for user accounts](/docs/setup/best-practices/certificates/#configure-certificates-for-user-accounts)".

Reviewer: nit:
```suggestion
    For information about creating certificates for individual user accounts, see [Configure certificates for user accounts](/docs/setup/best-practices/certificates/#configure-certificates-for-user-accounts).
`

    Update `client-certificate-data` and `client-key-data` respectively with the contents of certificates and private keys generated in their respective conf files, along with the kubelet client file in`/var/lib/kubelet/kubelet-client-current.pem`.

> 1. Update `kubelet.conf`, the `kubelet` certificate, and the private key on all worker nodes as well.

Reviewer: `kubelet` isn't a command line tool, so we wouldn't normally write its name in backticks.

1. Update the `certificate-authority-data` section in all `admin.conf`, `controller-manager.conf`,  `scheduler.conf`, and `kubelet.conf` files with Base64-encoded CA certificate data:

    Example:

    ```shell
    base64_encoded_ca="$(base64 /etc/kubernetes/pki/ca.crt)"

>     /bin/sed -i "s/\(certificate-authority-data:\).*/\1 ${base64_encoded_ca}" /path/to/conf/files

Reviewer 5: [1]

    ```

1. Follow these steps on all control plane and worker nodes.

    1. Stop the kubelet service on all control plane and worker nodes.

    1. Kill the static pod's containers manually on control plane nodes:

        Below example assumes the container runtime in use is `docker`.

        ```shell
        

>         /bin/docker ps -q --name=k8s_* | xargs --no-run-if-empty docker rm -f -

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        docker ps -q --name="k8s_*" | xargs --no-run-if-empty docker rm -f -
```

    1. Restart API servers with the certificates (`apiserver.crt`, `apiserver-kubelet-client.crt` and `front-proxy-client.crt`) signed by new CA. You can use the existing private keys or new private keys. If you changed the private keys then update these in the Kubernetes certificates directory as well.

        Since the pod trusts both old and new CAs, there will be a momentarily disconnection after which the pod's kube client will reconnect to the new API server that uses the certificate signed by the new CA.

        *    Restart Scheduler to use the new CAs.

        *    Make sure control plane components logs no TLS errors.

        {{< note >}}

        To generate certificates and private keys for your cluster using the `openssl` command line tool, see [Certificates (`openssl`)](/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/certificates/#openssl).    
        You can also use [`cfssl`](/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/certificates/#cfssl).

        {{< /note >}}

>     1. Annotate any daemonsets and deployments to trigger new pod creation in a safer rolling fashion.

Reviewer: (nit - doesn't block /lgtm, /approve or a merge)
```suggestion
     1. Annotate any DaemonSets and Deployments to trigger new pod creation in a safer rolling fashion.
```
(could also say “Pod replacement”; could also reference https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/run-application/configure-pdb/)

Author: done changed as suggested, pod replacement sound better.

---
title: Manual Rotation of CA Certificates
min-kubernetes-server-version: v1.13
content_template: templates/task
---

{{% capture overview %}}

This page shows how to manually rotate the certificate authority (CA) certificates.

{{% /capture %}}

{{% capture prerequisites %}}

{{< include "task-tutorial-prereqs.md" >}} {{< version-check >}}

For more information about authentication in Kubernetes, see [Authenticating](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authentication).
For more information about best practices for CA certificates, see [Single root CA](docs/setup/best-practices/certificates/#single-root-ca).

{{% /capture %}}

{{% capture steps %}}
## Choose an approach
There are two ways to rotate or replace CA certificates.

> ## Replace the cluster (recommended) {#replace-the-cluster}

Reviewer 6: I would not recommend this approach.  Replacing a cluster to rotate trust isn't rotation, is destructive, causes service reference problems, and cause PVC issues.  I don't think we should provide this as an option.

Author: replacing the cluster is the safest approach, because one would be migrating the workload while doing so. At some point the approach should use a blue green kind of methodology to maintain operation.

Reviewer 3: potentially if there are arguments against this approach it can be moved at the bottom as an "alternative" and undocumented option.

Author: On second thought @deads2k has mentioned a valid point. Although its not quite about destruction but about many other factors, cost is one of them. It is easy to move cluster when you have less workload and less number of nodes but when there is a large infrastructure, not everyone would agree for replacing the cluster as a recommended solution.

@neolit123  if you agree, can you please suggest how can we draft it as an alternative approach in this document.

Reviewer: Hi @abhiTamrakar

You could have an “Alternatives” section at the end of the document, and a note at the top that tells the reader that this is quite a lot of work and to have a look there if they're not sure the approach is a good use of their time.

How does that sound?

Reviewer 3: +1

Author: Added, it looks better now, waiting for approval, if there are no more changes :)

This is the safest approach to rotate or replace the CA certificates.

1. Create a new cluster with new CA certificates.

2. Migrate the workloads to the new cluster.

3. Remove or destroy the old cluster.

## Rotate the CA certificates manually

{{< caution >}}

> Make sure to back up your certificate directory along with configuration files (`.conf`) and any other necessary files.

Reviewer 6: `.conf` files sound like a deployment detail

> Manually rotating the CA works by timing when a Kubernetes cluster knows about new certificates. Do not restart any pods or update any component in the cluster while manually rotating the CA.

Reviewer 2: > Do not restart any pods or update any component in the cluster while manually rotating the CA.

Since the idea for this guide is a zero-downtime rollout, regular pod restarts should be handled just fine

> Manually rotating the CA works by timing when a Kubernetes cluster knows about new certificates. Do not restart any pods or update any component in the cluster while manually rotating the CA.

Reviewer 6: restarting pods during this process is completely fine.

> This approach requires a considerable downtime of your cluster.

Reviewer 2: Since this is no longer true, can you remove this?

Author: we can update like "This approach may require a considerable downtime of your cluster."? since there will be a momentarily downtime in API server. Considering there would be people running single masters as well.

Reviewer 2: Since this guide is really geared toward multi-master with graceful cutover, I still don't like "considerable downtime." Unavailability of a single API server is an expected step in any Kubernetes cluster update or upgrade, but that would be worth calling out.

How about:
> This approach assumes operation of the Kubernets control plane in a highly available configuration with multiple API servers. Graceful termination of the API server is also assumed so clients can cleanly disconnect from one API server and reconnect to another. Configurations with a single API server will experience unavailability while the API server is being restarted.

> This approach requires a considerable downtime of your cluster.

Reviewer 6: Downtime is not required for adding or removing trust. 

1. update each process, one node at a time to add trust for new
2. update each process, one node at a time to use certificates signed by new
3. update each process, one node at a time to remove trust for old

{{< /caution >}}
    

> 1. Distribute new CA private keys (`ca.key` and `front-proxy-ca.key`) to all your control plane nodes in the Kubernetes certificates directory.

Reviewer 6: this is out of order.  You need to extend trust first.

1. Append new CA to the existing CA files (`ca.crt` and `front-proxy-ca.crt`) and the file against `--client-ca-file` flag in the `kube-apiserver` and `kube-scheduler` configuration.

    {{< note >}}

>     If you used `kubeadm` to deploy your cluster, the control plane components run as {{< glossary_tooltip text="static Pods" term_id="static-pod" >}}, managed by the {{< glossary_tooltip text="kubelet" term_id="kubelet" >}}. Components are not disrupted by in-place updates of CA certificates until someone kills or restarts an already running Pod.

Reviewer 3: `until someone restarts` (without `kills or`) should be sufficient.

>     If you used `kubeadm` to deploy your cluster, the control plane components run as {{< glossary_tooltip text="static Pods" term_id="static-pod" >}}, managed by the {{< glossary_tooltip text="kubelet" term_id="kubelet" >}}. Components are not disrupted by in-place updates of CA certificates until someone kills or restarts an already running Pod.

Reviewer 6: restarting a pod should not be disruptive in general.  What problems are you seeing?

    {{< /note >}}

> 1. Update *Kubernetes controller manager's* `--root-ca-file` to include both old and new CA.

Reviewer 2: Should we add a sentence stating why? ex: "This ensures newly created ServiceAccount secrets include both the old and new CA data"

Author: Added as per your advise

     {{< note >}}

>      Remove the flag `--client-ca-file` from the *Kubernetes controller manager* configuration. You can also replace the existing client CA file or change this configuration item to reference a new, updated CA. [Issue 1350](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubeadm/issues/1350) enumerates an issue with *Kubernetes controller manager* being unable to accept CA bundle.

Reviewer 3: `enumerates` -> `tracks`

`enumerates` "mention (a number of things) one by one."

Reviewer 3: `accept CA bundle` -> `accept a CA bundle`

    {{< /note >}}

> 1. Update the kubelet configuration to use new CA on all worker nodes.

Reviewer 3: `use the new`

Reviewer 3: i think some more detail here is needed.

is this about updating `clientCAFile: ` in the KubeletConfiguration (e.g. `/var/lib/kubelet/config.yaml`) to point to a new CA file? default value might be `clientCAFile: /etc/kubernetes/pki/ca.crt`.

yet earlier we recommended that the new CA is appended to the `ca.crt`.

Reviewer 3: Q: why only workers? can this be done for all nodes?

Reviewer 2: This should call out that its the clientCA file _and_ the kubeconfig on all nodes (not just worker)

Author: agreed @micahhausler @neolit123 , my bad. Will update

> 1. Use the new CA to sign new certificates that replace the existing `apiserver.crt`, `apiserver-kubelet-client.crt`, and `front-proxy-client.crt` and place the new certificates in the Kubernetes certificates directory. You can use the existing private keys or new private keys. if you changed the private keys then update these in the Kubernetes certificates directory as well.

Reviewer 3: > Use the new CA to sign new certificates that replace the existing `apiserver.crt`, `apiserver-kubelet-client.crt` and `front-proxy-client.crt`. Then place...

> If you changed...
(Upper case If)

> 1. Use the new CA to sign new certificates that replace the existing `apiserver.crt`, `apiserver-kubelet-client.crt`, and `front-proxy-client.crt` and place the new certificates in the Kubernetes certificates directory. You can use the existing private keys or new private keys. if you changed the private keys then update these in the Kubernetes certificates directory as well.

Reviewer 6: I recommend having a user getting all his certs generated before beginning.

1. If your cluster is using bootstrap tokens to join nodes, update the ConfigMap `cluster-info` in the `kube-public` namespace.

    ```shell
    base64_encoded_ca="$(base64 /etc/kubernetes/pki/ca.crt)"

    kubectl get cm/cluster-info --namespace kube-public -o yaml | \
        /bin/sed "s/\(certificate-authority-data:\).*/\1 ${base64_encoded_ca}" | \
        kubectl apply -f -
    ```

1. Update all service account tokens with the new CA certificates.
    ```shell
    base64_encoded_ca="$(base64 /etc/kubernetes/pki/ca.crt)"

    for namespace in $(kubectl get ns --no-headers | awk '{print $1}'); do
        for token in $(kubectl get secrets --namespace "$namespace" --field-selector type=kubernetes.io/service-account-token -o name); do
            kubectl get $token --namespace "$namespace" -o yaml | \
            /bin/sed "s/\(ca.crt:\).*/\1 ${base64_encoded_ca}" | \
            kubectl apply -f -
        done
    done

    ```

1. Update certificates for user accounts.

    For information about creating certificates for individual user accounts, see [Configure certificates for user accounts](/docs/setup/best-practices/certificates/#configure-certificates-for-user-accounts).

>     Update `client-certificate-data` and `client-key-data` respectively with the contents of certificates and private keys generated in their respective conf files, along with the kubelet client file in`/var/lib/kubelet/kubelet-client-current.pem`.

Reviewer 3: `/var/lib/kubelet/kubelet-client-current.pem` this file is only present if the kubelet client certificate rotation is enabled.

possibly reword to:
> along with the kubelet client certificate file usually found in `/var/lib/kubelet/`

> 1. Update `kubelet.conf`, the `kubelet` certificate, and the private key on all worker nodes as well.

Reviewer 3: if kubelet client cert rotation is enabled it is sufficient to only update `certificate-authority-data` in kubelet.conf. `client-{certificate|key}-data` should point to `/var/lib/kubelet/pki/kubelet-client-current.pem`

possibly reword to:
> In your kubelet is not using client certificate rotation update `client-certificate-data` and `client-key-data` in `kubelet.conf` on all nodes.

Reviewer 3: Q: why only workers? can this be done for all nodes?

1. Update the `certificate-authority-data` section in all `admin.conf`, `controller-manager.conf`,  `scheduler.conf`, and `kubelet.conf` files with Base64-encoded CA certificate data:

    Example:

    ```shell
    base64_encoded_ca="$(base64 /etc/kubernetes/pki/ca.crt)"

    /bin/sed -i "s/\(certificate-authority-data:\).*/\1 ${base64_encoded_ca}" /path/to/conf/files
    ```

> 1. Follow these steps on all control plane and worker nodes.

Reviewer 2: Can you make it clear this should be done in a rolling fashion, and not done simultaneously on all instances?

Author: I guess at some point it was there mentioned in rolling fashion and I somehow deleted it. :(

>     1. Stop the kubelet service on all control plane and worker nodes.

Reviewer 2: Why kill all containers while the kubelet is offline? Why not restart the kubelet first?

Author: this was there to ensure we remove older configuration from all pods at the same time. That must not be needed now since we can patch the deployment and it will automatically spun new pods in a rolling way. I will update this.

>     1. Kill the containers manually on control plane nodes:

Reviewer 2: Why is this necessary? Is this to restart all the control plane components with updated flags? If so, there isn't a need to stop all the containers on a node at the same time is there?

        Below example assumes the container runtime in use is `Docker`.

        ```shell        
        docker ps -af --name="k8s_*" -q | xargs --no-run-if-empty docker rm -f -
        ``` 

    1. Start the kubelet service.

    1. Restart any other *[aggregated api servers](/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/apiserver-aggregation/)* or *webhook handlers* to trust the new CA certificates.

>     1. Make sure the control plane comes up and logs no TLS errors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    1. Make sure the static pods come up without TLS errors in the logs.
```

    1. Make sure container networking functions.

>     1. Make sure `coredns` and `kube-proxy` are updated with the new CA and function correctly after CA rotation.

Reviewer 2: Maybe add a sentence stating that "If CoreDNS and KubeProxy are managed by Deployments and DaemonSets respectively, a rolling deletion of existing pods will cause new pods to be created with an auto-mounted ServiceAccount secret that includes both the old and new CA data.

Author: @micahhausler the amended steps I mentioned does not append CA to serviceaccounts but replace it. We will have old + new CA appended in clientCAFile or rootCAFile resp. As long as that is there we can renew all other configs including service accounts and kubeconfigs with new CA. This will help validating the new CA easily and will also reduce the impact when the control plane is restarted again after removal of old CA.

Please let me know if my understanding is correct here.

Reviewer 2: For ServiceAccount secrets, the guide should indicate that the following transition is made:

* All service account secrets include the old CA, all pods with a kube client trust the old CA (initial state) 
* User restarts controller manager with `-–root-ca-file` pointing to file that includes both old and new CAs
  * Any new service accounts created after this point will trust both old and new CAs
* User updates all existing service account secrets `ca.crt` data field to include old CA appended by new CA
  * If any pods are restarted before new CA is used by API servers, they will pick up this update and trust both old and new CAs
* Restart all pods using in-cluster configs (ex: kube-proxy, coredns, etc) so they use the updated CA secret material 
* User restarts API servers with cert signed by new CA
  * A pod's kube client disconnects from a terminating API server that had a cert using the old CA, connects to a new API server that uses a cert from the new CA. Since the pod trusts both CAs, there is only a momentary disconnect/reconnect. 

[optional cleanup] 
* KCM can be restarted with only new CA in the `--root-ca-file`
  * Any new pods started after this point will only trust the new CA
* SA secrets can be updated to only include new CA
  * All pods using an in-cluster kubeconfig will eventually need to be restarted to pick up the new SA secret for the old CA to be completely untrusted

Author: After re-iterating through all steps, I am in complete agreement here. Will update the doc and send for your review shortly.

Author: Made changes, please review again and approve if its all good.

    1. Kill or restart all other pods, one by one for all available namespaces, leveraging the benefit of rolling restarts to refresh service account credentials:

        ```shell

>         kubectl delete pods --namespace <namespace>

Reviewer 2: Deleting all pods in a namespace at once is a little heavy handed. Annotating a deployment or a daemonset will trigger new pod creation in a safer fashion.

```bash
for namespace in $(kubectl get namespace -o jsonpath='{.items[*].metadata.name}'); do
  for deployment in $(kubectl get deployments -n $namespace -o jsonpath='{.items[*].metadata.name}'); do
    kubectl patch deployment ${name} -p '{"spec":{"template":{"metadata":{"annotations":{"ca-rotation": "1"}}}}}';
  done
  for daemonset in $(kubectl get daemonset -n $namespace -o jsonpath='{.items[*].metadata.name}'); do
    kubectl patch daemonset ${name} -p '{"spec":{"template":{"metadata":{"annotations":{"ca-rotation": "1"}}}}}';
  done
done
```

Author: included, thanks

        ```

1. Once the cluster functionality is successfully verified, remove old CA from the CA files (`ca.crt` and `front-proxy-ca.crt`). Also remove old CA from the file against `--client-ca-file` and `--root-ca-file` flag in control plane components.

>     1. Restart all control plane components to begin using new CA.

Reviewer 3: i think this section can be refactored to:

```
1. Once the cluster functionality is successfully verified
  1. Remove old CA from the CA files (`ca.crt` and `front-proxy-ca.crt`)
  1. Also remove old CA from the file against `--client-ca-file` and `--root-ca-file` flag in control plane components.
  1. Restart all control plane components to begin using new CA.
```

Reviewer 2: Also, if the old CA is really no longer trusted, it should be removed from the ServiceAccount secrets and pods should be restarted

> 1. Distribute [Self Signed CA certificates](/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/certificates/#distributing-self-signed-ca-certificate).

Reviewer 3: i guess this is an optional step for this guide?
should we state it as "1. Optionally, you can ....`?

Reviewer 2: I think this can be cut from this guide

Author: @micahhausler I guess people would need it optionally. The CA that is in use by k8s should be added to the local trust store, at least.

Reviewer 2: This point isn't clear where/who a self-signed CA is distributed to

Author: It is not the self signed certificate I wanted to refer to, a more proper sentence is "add the new CA to local trust store".

Reviewer 2: Since this is not strictly necessary, it shouldn't be included in the guide. 

Since Kubernetes users can request certificates with arbitrary CommonNames or x509 SAN extensions via the Kubernetes API, a bad actor with sufficient permission could get an irrevocable TLS certificate for something like `www.google.com`. If you combined that with a man-in-the-middle attack on a node, you could get it to trust just about anything. I don't think this guide should include this step

Author: removed as per advise

---
title: Manual Rotation of CA Certificates
min-kubernetes-server-version: v1.13
content_template: templates/task
---

{{% capture overview %}}

This page shows how to manually rotate the certificate authority (CA) certificates.

{{% /capture %}}

{{% capture prerequisites %}}

{{< include "task-tutorial-prereqs.md" >}} {{< version-check >}}

> 

Reviewer: Later on the page says: “Make sure container networking functions.”

I wonder, is it worth calling out the aptitudes that we assume the reader has (eg: able to validate container networking is working correctly)? There are certainly a few skills they will need.

Author: hmm I agree, I mentioned steps like that based on my prior experience. coredns pods running doesn't always means it is functional (few earlier bugs and scenarios). I can remove it too, but it would be better to mention what people must not forget to check.

For example, kubernetes documentation has reference to use dnsutils to validate dns services. That would actually validate container networking function in a way. People could use document to debug services https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/debug-application-cluster/debug-service/ as well.

So yes, they need few other skills, but this kind of activity has to be performed by people who know what exactly they would be doing and that includes a basic networking and some understanding of PKI to list just bare minimum.

For more information about authentication in Kubernetes, see [Authenticating](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authentication).
For more information about best practices for CA certificates, see [Single root CA](docs/setup/best-practices/certificates/#single-root-ca).

{{% /capture %}}

{{% capture steps %}}
## Choose an approach
There are two ways to rotate or replace CA certificates.

## Replace the cluster (recommended) {#replace-the-cluster}

This is the safest approach to rotate or replace the CA certificates.

1. Create a new cluster with new CA certificates.

2. Migrate the workloads to the new cluster.

3. Remove or destroy the old cluster.

## Rotate the CA certificates manually

{{< caution >}}

> Make sure to back up your certificate directory along with configuration files (.conf) and any other necessary files.

Author: updated the PR with most fo your suggestions

Manually rotating the CA works by timing when a Kubernetes cluster knows about new certificates. Do not restart any pods or update any component in the cluster while manually rotating the CA.

This approach requires a considerable downtime of your cluster.

{{< /caution >}}

> 1. Back up your `/etc/kubernetes` directory, referred to as the *Kubernetes conf directory* and `/etc/kubernetes/pki`, referred to as the *Kubernetes certificates directory*.

Author: I will safely remove the first point.

    
1. Distribute new CA private keys (`ca.key` and `front-proxy-ca.key`) to all your control plane nodes in the Kubernetes certificates directory.

1. Append new CA to the existing CA files (`ca.crt` and `front-proxy-ca.crt`) and the file against `--client-ca-file` flag in the `kube-apiserver` and `kube-scheduler` manifest files.

    {{< note >}}

    If you used `kubeadm` to deploy your cluster, the control plane components run as {{< glossary_tooltip text="static Pods" term_id="static-pod" >}}, managed by the {{< glossary_tooltip text="kubelet" term_id="kubelet" >}}. Components are not disrupted by in-place updates of CA certificates until someone kills or restarts an already running Pod.

    {{< /note >}}

1. Update *Kubernetes controller manager's* `--root-ca-file` to include both old and new CA.

     {{< note >}}

>      Remove the flag `--client-ca-file` from *Kubernetes controller manager* manifest file or replace the file with new CA. [Issue 1350](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubeadm/issues/1350) enumerates an issue with *Kubernetes controller manager* being unable to accept CA bundle.

Reviewer: nit, don't let this detail block a merge:
```suggestion
      Remove the flag `--client-ca-file` from the *Kubernetes controller manager* configuration. You can also replace the existing client CA file or change this configuration item to reference a new, updated CA. [Issue 1350](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubeadm/issues/1350) enumerates an issue with *Kubernetes controller manager* being unable to accept CA bundle.
```
I don't think that the kube-controller-manager configuration file is a manifest. That's probably splitting hairs _but_ it's also important to me not to leave open questions like “hang on, do I or don't I know what a manifest is?” in readers' minds. So I'd take the word manifest out.

Author: included

    {{< /note >}}

> 1. Copy the new CA certificate file on all nodes needed by the kubelet.

Reviewer: What does “all nodes needed by the kubelet” mean?

Author: I think we might need to change the wordings, it does sound confusing.

"Update the new CA certificate used for kubelet configuration, on all worker nodes"

> 1. Get new certificates and private keys signed from the new CA for `apiserver.crt`, `apiserver-kubelet-client.crt`, and `front-proxy-client.crt` and replace them in the Kubernetes certificates directory.

Reviewer: My suggested wording (also changes the meaning):
```suggestion
1. Use the new CA to sign new certificates that replace the existing `apiserver.crt`, `apiserver-kubelet-client.crt`, and `front-proxy-client.crt` and place the new certificates in the Kubernetes certificates directory. You can use the existing private keys or new private keys; if you changed the private keys then update these in the Kubernetes certificates directory as well.
```

    To generate certificates and private keys for your cluster using the `openssl` command line tool, see [Certificates (`openssl`)](/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/certificates/#openssl).
    

>     You can also use [`cfssl`](/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/certificates/#cfssl).

Reviewer: _Optional tweak_
The reader needs to use a third party tool to achieve this outcome. I'd also let them know about smallstep:
```suggestion
    You can also use other tools such as [`cfssl`](/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/certificates/#cfssl) or [`step`](https://smallstep.com/cli/).
```

Author: I will ignore this one we have given 2 options already openssl and cfssl.

    Update `client-certificate-data` and `client-key-data` respectively with the contents of certificates and private keys generated in their respective conf files, along with the kubelet client file in`/var/lib/kubelet/kubelet-client-current.pem`.

1. Update `kubelet.conf`, the `kubelet` certificate, and the private key on all worker nodes as well.

1. Update the `certificate-authority-data` section in all `admin.conf`, `controller-manager.conf`,  `scheduler.conf`, and `kubelet.conf` files with Base64-encoded CA certificate data:

    Example:

    ```shell
    base64_encoded_ca="$(base64 /etc/kubernetes/pki/ca.crt)"

    /bin/sed -i "s/\(certificate-authority-data:\).*/\1 ${base64_encoded_ca}" /path/to/conf/files
    ```

1. Follow these steps on all control plane and worker nodes.

    1. Stop the kubelet service on all control plane and worker nodes.

    1. Kill the containers manually on control plane nodes:

        Below example assumes the container runtime in use is `Docker`.

        ```shell
        
        docker ps -af --name="k8s_*" -q | xargs --no-run-if-empty docker rm -f -
        ``` 

    1. Start the kubelet service.

>     1. Restart any other *Aggregated api servers* or *webhook* to trust the new CA certificates.

Reviewer: How about:
```suggestion
    1. Restart any other *aggregated api servers* or *webhook handlers* to trust the new CA certificates.
```

If you want: “aggregated” could link to https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/apiserver-aggregation/

    1. Make sure the control plane comes up and logs no TLS errors.

    1. Make sure container networking functions.

    1. Make sure `coredns` and `kube-proxy` are updated with the new CA and function correctly after CA rotation.

    1. Kill or restart all other pods, one by one for all available namespaces, leveraging the benefit of rolling restarts to refresh service account credentials:

        ```shell
        
        kubectl delete pods --namespace <namespace>
        ```

1. Once the cluster functionality is successfully verified, remove old CA from the CA files (`ca.crt` and `front-proxy-ca.crt`). Also remove old CA from the file against `--client-ca-file` and `--root-ca-file` flag in control plane components.

>     1. Restart all control plane pods to begin using new CA.

Reviewer: BTW, this assumes you're running the control plane in Pods.

Author: I will replace that to components instead of pods.

> ## Replace the cluster {#replace-the-cluster}

Reviewer 3: i'm starting to get convinced that we should not include this in the guide.
after all, the page is called "manual CA rotation" and this solution should be obvious as an alternative.

so please remove it.
other than that leaving final LGTM to SIG Auth!

thank you.

Author: @neolit123 removed the approach.

    For information about creating certificates for individual user accounts, see [Configure certificates for user accounts](/docs/setup/best-practices/certificates/#configure-certificates-for-user-accounts).

1. Restart API servers with the certificates (`apiserver.crt`, `apiserver-kubelet-client.crt`, and `front-proxy-client.crt`) signed by new CA. You can use the existing private keys or new private keys. If you changed the private keys then update these in the Kubernetes certificates directory as well.

    Since the pod trusts both old + new CAs, there will be a momentarily disconnection after which the pod's kube client will reconnect to the new API server that uses the certificate signed by the new CA.

    {{< note >}}

    To generate certificates and private keys for your cluster using the `openssl` command line tool, see [Certificates (`openssl`)](/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/certificates/#openssl).
    
    You can also use [`cfssl`](/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/certificates/#cfssl).

>     {{< /note >}}

Reviewer 4: The `{{< note >}}` shortcodes probably shouldn't be indented.

Author: If they are not indented, they will break the order of the list. I ran hugo locally and fixed the issue, it was the {{< note >}} shortcode cant handle empty lines between two sentences inside it.
Thanks

    
    1. Restart Scheduler to use the new CAs.

>     1. Make sure control plane components logs no TLS errors.

Reviewer: My suggestion: try changing this to an unordered list and see if that fixes how Hugo builds the site.

Author: its fixed, thanks. it was an empty line between 2 sentences inside {{< note >}} shortcode causing issue.

        Example:

        ```shell
        for namespace in $(kubectl get namespace -o jsonpath='{.items[*].metadata.name}'); do
            for name in $(kubectl get deployments -n $namespace -o jsonpath='{.items[*].metadata.name}'); do
                kubectl patch deployment -n ${namespace} ${name} -p '{"spec":{"template":{"metadata":{"annotations":{"ca-rotation": "1"}}}}}';
            done
            for name in $(kubectl get daemonset -n $namespace -o jsonpath='{.items[*].metadata.name}'); do
                kubectl patch daemonset -n ${namespace} ${name} -p '{"spec":{"template":{"metadata":{"annotations":{"ca-rotation": "1"}}}}}';
            done
        done
        ```

1. Once the cluster functionality is successfully verified:

    1. Remove old CA from the files against `--client-ca-file` and `--root-ca-file` flags and restart the control plane components.

    1. Update all service account tokens to include new CA certificate only.

        1. All pods using an in-cluster kubeconfig will eventually need to be restarted to pick up the new SA secret for the old CA to be completely untrusted.

> ## Alternative Approach

Reviewer 4: No caps needed, add a blank line.
```suggestion
## Alternative approach

```
